So there’s this proper old geezer, Old Bloke, who pops round to see a little fella called Furry Toes in the Shire. The Shire's like your local quiet suburb, all green hills and folks having a knees-up with a bit of Rosie Lee. Now, Furry Toes has got himself in a bit of a two and eight 'cause his Uncle Bilbo Bagshot has legged it and left behind a bit of bling that's bad news.
Turns out this bling belongs to the ultimate dodgy geezer, Sore Throat, who’s been after it for donkeys. If Sore Throat gets his mitts on it, the whole of Middle-Earth is gonna be well and truly pear-shaped. So Old Bloke tells Furry Toes, "You gotta leg it to the Prancing Pony, meet up with some of me mates."
So off goes Furry Toes with his pals – his best mate Sammy Spud, and two jokers, Pip ‘n’ Merry. On the way, they're dodging the Black Cabs – spooky blokes who work for Sore Throat and ain't after a lift to the West End, if you catch my drift.
At the Prancing Pony, they meet Strider, a proper geezer who’s handy with a chopper. He’s been sent by Old Bloke to help them get to the Elvish Palace, where they meet Elron Hubbard – top bloke, bit mystical, knows his onions. They form a gang of lads to take the bling to Mount Boom and chuck it in the fire, where it can be properly done in.
So off they trot with Legless, who’s a dab hand with the old bow and arrow; Gimli Geezer, a dwarf who’s all about smashing things up; and Boro-Laddo, who’s a bit dodgy and gets ideas about nicking the bling. They have a right old tear-up with some proper nasties – Orcs and a big cave troll. But things go south when Boro-Laddo gets greedy, and the gang splits up.
Furry Toes and Sammy Spud head off on their Jack Jones to Mount Boom, while Strider, Legless, and Gimli Geezer start chasing after Pip ‘n’ Merry, who’ve been nabbed by a bunch of Orc geezers. Meanwhile, Furry Toes and Sammy get followed by Gollum the Geezer, who used to have the bling and ain’t all there upstairs, if you know what I mean.
After all sorts of malarkey, including a scrap at Helm’s Deep (that’s a big fortress where Strider’s lot hold off a bunch of nasties), they all end up in Gondor (fancy kingdom with big walls). There, Strider takes his rightful place as the main man, and they have a final dust-up with Sore Throat’s army to give Furry Toes time to chuck the bling in the fire.
In the end, Furry Toes can’t quite do it, but Gollum the Geezer, being his usual mad self, bites off Furry’s finger and falls into the fire with the bling, doing himself in and finishing the job. Sore Throat’s done for, the world’s saved, and Strider becomes the top dog.
Furry Toes and Sammy Spud head back to the Shire for a bit of peace and quiet, but it’s all gone a bit Pete Tong thanks to some bad apples. So they sort that out, have a pint, and Furry Toes, being a bit knackered from all the drama, sails off with the Elvish lot to a place where he can have a nice long kip.
